---
title: "Machine Learning in  the market's point of view"
classes: wide
layout: archive
categories:
  - Blog
tags:
  - jobs
  - machine learning
---
<!-- Me perguntaram em uma entrevista recente se tinha conhecimentos em Machine Learning. Respondi que tenho noção! O entrevistador logo se mostrou surpreso, pois a entrevista era justamente para o cargo de especialista em Machine Learning. Logo tentei explicar! Digo que tenho noção justamente por entender que os próximos passos da nova evolução tecnológica guarda algo que o que conhecemos hoje é mero aprendizado. Embora toda essa evolução seja o resultado dos profissionais nesta área, a grande maioria sabe o superficial. Grandes mentes, gênios, revolucionários da ciência, matemáticos e filósofos, talvez uma percepção melhor do conceito! Não digo isso questionando nossas capacidades, mas que pela “flauta da vida” resolveram não se aprofundar tanto como tais mentes. Talvez Machine Learning na concepção do mercado, é saber sobre os principais modelos de predição, entender os casos e suas aplicações, saber testá-los, entender sua filosofia frente aos problemas, como estruturá-los na cadeia de procedimentos, saber em que momento utilizar, organizar amostras e as melhores infras para determinadas situações. Bem, isso tudo já não é pouco, eu sei. Entretanto, entender que isso seja apenas uma vertente é fundamental. A evolução é eminente, e isso é bom! Ao passo que, a evolução das máquinas modificar-se-á as bases da computação! Aquelas de meados de 1942, com as teorias de Alan Turing e outros, quanto à criação dos autômatos finitos e autômatos de máquina. Hoje, vivemos para ver definitivamente o rompimento dessa barreira (se já não se rompeu). Prestes a presenciar uma reformulação dos estados de máquina. O poder computacional e dimensão dos instrumentos hoje permitirão isso. A sinergia entre as múltiplas áreas do conhecimento estão muito mais aderentes e próximas, fácil de concluir que a alfabetização logo servirá a outro domínio além daquele que normalmente conhecemos! Posso estar totalmente errado, mas acredito que em alguns aspectos a tecnologia possa sim estar seguindo essa linha de pensamento…. -->

I was asked in a recent interview if I had any knowledge in Machine Learning. I replied that I have some idea! 

The interviewer was soon surprised, as the position was precisely for a Specialist in Machine Learning. Then I tried to explain! I say that I am aware precisely because I understand that the next steps of the new technological evolution keep something that what we know today is mere learning. Although all this evolution is the result of professionals in this area, the vast majority know the superficial. Great minds, geniuses, science revolutionaries, mathematicians and philosophers, perhaps have a better perception of the concept! I do not say this by questioning our abilities, but that through the “flute of life”, we decided for not going as deep as these minds. 

# New ways to see the problem
In my point of view, any application using the concepts of smart behavior relies in the end in a phylosofical thinking.  


Perhaps Machine Learning in the market conception, is to know about the main prediction models, to understand the cases and their applications, to know how to test them, to understand their philosophy in the face of problems, how to structure them in the chain of procedures, to know when to use, organize training samples and the best infrastructures for certain situations, how accurate it is. Well, this is not a small think, I know. However, understanding that this is only one aspect beyond a huge amount, is fundamental. 

Evolution is imminent, and that's might be a good thing! Whereas, the evolution of machines will change the basis of computing! Those of mid-1942 until 60’s, with the theories of Alan Turing and others, regarding the creation of finite automata and machine automata. Today, we live to definitely see the breaking of that barrier (if it hasn't already). About to witness a reformulation of machine states. The computational power and dimension of the instruments available today will allow this. The synergy between the multiple areas of knowledge are much closer and closer, easy to conclude that literacy will soon serve another domain unless the one we usually know. I can be totally wrong, but I truly believe that in some aspects the technology might be following ….

# Loebner Price
The Loebner Prize is an annual competition in artificial intelligence that awards prizes to the computer programs considered by the judges to be the most human-like. The format of the competition is that of a standard Turing test. In each round, a human judge simultaneously holds textual conversations with a computer program and a human being via computer. Based upon the responses, the judge must decide which is which.

The contest was launched in 1990 by Hugh Loebner in conjunction with the Cambridge Center for Behavioral Studies, Massachusetts, United States. Since 2014[1] it has been organised by the AISB at Bletchley Park.[2] It has also been associated with Flinders University, Dartmouth College, the Science Museum in London, University of Reading and Ulster University, Magee Campus, Derry, UK City of Culture. In 2004 and 2005, it was held in Loebner's apartment in New York City. Within the field of artificial intelligence, the Loebner Prize is somewhat controversial; the most prominent critic, Marvin Minsky, called it a publicity stunt that does not help the field along.[3]
